# Password Generator: Python Command-Line Tool

**Password Generator** is a Python-based command-line interface (CLI) tool designed to deterministically generate a password for a particular name, site and master key. It takes away the hassle of creating, remembering or storing strong passwords.

---

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Installation and Usage](#installation-and-usage)
- [Options](#options)
- [Ezplanation](#explanation)
- [Final Thoughts](#final-thoughts)

---

## Features

- **Easy-to-use CLI**: Simple commands with clear options and arguments.
- **Cross-platform**: Works on Linux, macOS, and Windows.
- **Deterministic**: Passwords stays the same if the input parameters are the same.
- **Variable Usage**: You can customize your password length, allowed special characters or whether to even have special characters in the first place.
- **No Storage, No Logging, No Caching**: Based on Cybersecurity ZTM (Zero Trust Model), I've made sure no password is stored anywhere.

---

## Installation and Usage

Ensure you have **Python 3.11+** recommended. (Tool is developed using Py 3.13). All packages are included within the standard python library. No additional packages are required to be installed.

- Clone the repository and run locally:
  ```git clone __repo__```
- Navigate into repo:
  ```cd __repo__```
- Since, no additional packages are required, you can skip venv creation if you don't want it. (Though recommended)
- Execute password_generator to read manual:
  ```python password_generator.py -h```

---

## Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-h`, `--help` | show this help message and exit |
| `-l`, `--length` | password length<br>Min. 8 characters (default: 12) |
| `--nsp` | flag to exclude special characters from password generation (default: True) |
| `-scs`, `--specialC` | use it to change the acceptable special characters used<br>Not recommended, unless you know what you're doing (default: !@#$&*-+_.?) |

---

## Explanation

- The entry point starts the `main` function.
- Inside `main` function:
    1. A Python Argument Parser is initialized with relevant data & a custom help formatter.
    2. Required and optional parameters are added to the parser; along with a custom password length error handler.
    3. The parser parameters is then stored inside a dictionary and then sent to `generate_password` function.
- Inside `generate_password` function:
    1. A seed is generated by the `_generate_randomiser` function and uses NAME, SITE, MASTER_KEY, PASS_LEN as parameters.  
      _(This is important for the underlying math. We want the passwords that are generated to be random but **deterministic**.
      Reason being, we want the same password, each time the exact same parameters are provided to the program.)_
    2. Each password will have at least 1 lowercase, digit, uppercase, each;
      And, remaining characters will be pseudo-randomly generated from the alphanumeric ranges: A-Z, a-z, 0-9.
    3. If special characters are to be included in the password,
      a few characters after the 3rd character will be swapped with a special character.
    4. Return the password as a string.  
      _(Lists are used for better performance and allows list comprehension and mutability.)_
- Inside `_generate_randomiser` function:
    1. String `MASTER_KEY + NAME + SITE`, in that order becomes the initial seed on which python's random function works.
    2. A randomly generated 3-character string `Uppercase + Digit + Lowercase` acts as a `salt`.
    3. A new string is created: `salt + SITE + salt + NAME + salt + MASTER_KEY + salt`.  
        _(The location swapping is deliberate and not a mere overlook)_
    4. A **SHA3 (256 BIT)** hash is created of the new encoded string and then converted to hexadecimal string format.
    5. Only the beginning `PASS_LEN` characters of it is returned.

---

## Final Thoughts

